#Keyword: active fault, Quaternary fault, Colluvial wedge, displacement, strike-slip

#2010, Mike Dentith et al., Ground penetrating radar as a means of studying palaeofault scarps in a deeply weathered terrain, southwestern Western Australia
!!This paper describe how to find the fault by using GPR in detail.  

However, the vast majority of the possible palaeoscarps has not been studied in detail on the ground, and it is possible that landforms resulting from other
processes could have been mistaken for palaeofault scarps.

This contribution presents the results of a test of the utility of ground penetrating radar (GPR) in the SWSZ to determine whether proposed palaeoscarps are of seismic origin.Data recorded across one
historic fault scarp (Meckering) and two confirmed palaeofault scarps (Hyden and Dumbleyung), see Fig. 1 for locations, are used to assess the usefulness of this method for confirming the existence of a
palaeofault scarp by determining which aspects of these features give recognisable responses. Also of interest is assessing the usefulness of GPR surveys as a means for positioning trenches for palaeoseismic
studies.

The geological environment in the Yilgarn Craton/SWSZ has characteristics which suggest that obtaining useful high-quality GPR data is difficult. The attenuation of the GPR electromagnetic signal
increases with the electrical conductivity of the subsurface. Thus, the saline groundwater and high clay content of the near-surface in the study area constitutes a far from ideal environment, and penetration
is limited to a few metres.

Since GPR tends to respond best to flat-lying laterally extensive features the best targets are sedimentary successions with alternation of ltdistinct beds of different
lithotypes.



Displacement of such bedding allows faults to be inferred. Changes in thickness of features too thin for their top and base to produce separable responses may be inferred from lateral changes in
the amplitude and phase of the GPR response. Colluvium is often imaged in GPR surveys, but usually as a single wedge-shaped mass; individual fans associated with distinct phases of movement are
usually too small to be identifiable. Reflections from the faults themselves are less common, but diffractions associated with horizons truncated by faults are common.

Reverse faults are typically shallow to moderately dipping and they cause vertical displacements of sub-horizontal features, such as Fig. 3. Schematic cross-section across active faults showing features potentially
detectable with GPR. a) Normal fault affecting a well bedded cover sequence. b) Reverse fault in a regolith dominated terrain. sedimentary layering. Features with such characteristics are good
targets for GPR (Amos et al., 2007; McClymont et al., 2008). Referring to Fig. 3a, and using the idealised 1D models illustrated in Fig. 2a as a template, responses from reverse faulting in a deeply weathered
terrain can be predicted. Many strong stratigraphic responses are unlikely; although ferricrete horizons and weathering fronts may be detectable. The gradual nature of lithological and weathering-
intensity changes with depth is not favourable for strong GPR reflections. This, and the tendency for abrupt lateral changes in weathering character and its depth, are likely to favour diffracted
responses rather than coherent reflectors. There is likely to be a strong physical property contrast at the base of any colluvium so this is a apotential target; a wedge-like form being expected.



!1997, Liner and Liner, Application of GPR to a site investigation involving shallow faults
Despite clay-rich soil, we found good GPR depth-of-penetration and data quality at this site although clays typically will significantly increase electrical conductivity of
the soil, thus diminishing penetration. Commonly, soil conductivity surveying is done ahead of GPR. Soil conductivities above 20-30 mS/m indicate an area unsuited to
GPR. Conductivity surveying was not included in our fieldwork, and no electrical conductivity measurements are available for the site.


The interpretation of a fault is justified by proximity to a known fault, and because the Boone and Fayet-teville are not known to exist in stratigraphic contact.




#2001, Lanbo Liu and Yong Li, Identification of liquefaction and deformation features using ground penetrating radar in the New Madrid seismic zone, USA


Correlation of the features shown by the GPR data and "ground truth" revealed by geological excavation holds the promise of using GPR to assist optimal selection of future trenching sites.





#2006, Haydar J. Al-Shukri et al., Three-Dimensional Imaging of Earthquake-induced Liquefaction Features with Ground Penetrating Radar Near Marianna, Arkansas
Our pri-
mary goal was to locate feeder dikes of sand blows and to image the contact between sand blows and the buried paleosurface in order to optimize the location of trenches.Trenching large sand blows is costly and provides a limited view of the overall structure. GPR helps to
identify possible locations for the venting dikes and to visualize the subsurface features. It also helps to map the locations in the sand blows of tree stumps that are useful for dating. GPR has higher resolution than other geophysical methods, is noninvasive, and provides greater aerial and depth coverage than trenching. It allows for less setup/sur-
vey time than traditional land-based seismic methods and can be carried out by just two people. Although penetration depth is substantially less than that of shallow seismic methods, GPR penetrates deep enough (several meters) to study near-surface
liquefaction features.


Gross et al. (1999, 2000) used 2-D and 3-D GPR data to study the Wellington fault in New Zealand and the San Andreas fault in California, attributing data offsets or abrupt terminations of laterally continuous reflections to faulting. They also indicated that GPR
helped in locating trench sites.


#2003, Salvi et al., Investigation of the active Celano–L’Aquila fault system, Abruzzi (central Apennines, Italy) with combined ground-penetrating radar and palaeoseismic trenching

In order to improve the definition of such activity, we carried out subsurface investigations using ground-penetrating radar first, and later cross-fault trenching.The reason for using GPR was twofold: first, we wanted to con-
firm our hypothesis on the origin of the scarp, by mapping the scarp continuity at depth, the thickness of the unconsolidated deposits and the shape of any displaced and now buried landforms; secondly, we wanted to select the most favourable sites for opening palaeoseismologic trenches.

#2015, Lunina et al., Deformation style in the damage zone of the Mondy fault: GPR evidence (Tunka basin, southern East Siberia)

#2021, Numerical simulation of ground‐penetrating radar data for studying the geometry of fault zone
